1. How many years has your project been in development? 
(If your current project involves the integration of other tools, 
please mention that in your answer as well.)

SUNDIALS evolved from a long series of solvers for ODE, DAE, and
nonlinear systems, starting with the Fortran codes VODE and VODPK,
DASSL and DASPK, and NKSOL written in the late '80s.
Starting in 1993, the push to solve large systems in parallel
motivated work to write or rewrite solvers in C. The resulting
codes were CVODE (94) and PVODE (98), IDA (99), and KINSOL (98).

These codes have been combined into the core of SUNDIALS, the  
SUite of Nonlinear and DIfferential/Algebraic equation Solvers,
first released in 2002. At this time, this suite consists of
CVODE, IDA, KINSOL, and CVODES (an augmentation of CVODE with
forward and adjoint sensitivity capabilities). All codes run
in both serial and parallel (MPI) environments.

2. What are your current development and support efforts?

A new release of SUNDIALS is expected soon. This will include
a new build system (based on configure scripts) and extensive 
documentation. The user interface has been modified to make
it more consistent across solvers and to facilitate coupling
between the SUNDIALS solvers and user applications (for example,
we have renounced the mechanism of using arrays of optional
inputs and outputs in favor of a set of set/get functions).

Current development focuses on IDAS, the equivalent of CVODES for
the DAE solver IDA and on providing more linear solver options
for all of the SUNDIALS solvers. These will be available in
future releases.

We actively support users that fund us (e.g., SciDAC and NNSA-ASC)
and, as time permits, we support other users as well. As mentioned 
above, the next release of SUNDIALS will include Bugzilla which 
will streamline support efforts.

3. How large is your user base?

The SUNDIALS solvers, as well as some of their predecessors, are
extensively used by researchers within LLNL. 

Since October 2002, when SUNDIALS was first released under a BSD 
license, there have been over 2000 downloads of either the entire
suite or a component of it. Note that we only monitor downloads 
from our download site (www.llnl.gov/CASC/sundials/).

4. Are the mechanisms and guidelines for inclusion and 
retirement of tools proposed in LBNL-PUB-3175 adequate?

Yes, although some terms need a more precise definition 
(e.g., 'proof of correctness' in sec. 3.1)

5. Any other comment or feedback?

The LBNL-PUB-3175 document still refers to SUNDIALS as 'PVODE'
(Table 1). PVODE was the initial parallel extension of CVODE.
Within SUNDIALS, with the new design of the generic NVECTOR module
(shared by all four solvers), there is only one ODE solver, CVODE,
which runs both on serial and parallel environments, depending on 
the particular vector representation used.

Also, we would like it mentioned that SUNDIALS also contains
solvers with sensitivity analysis capabilities (currently CVODES,
with IDAS to follow in a future release).


